I think to add to this is there's no
Silver Bullet in pricing right so there
it really depends on what the objectives
are right user adoption value extraction
you name it and you got to adopt or you
got to change and customize your model
towards that and that's I think it's the
main thing here the other aspect I and
I'm going to talk about a little bit
later as well is like really zeroing in
on the metric and what is uh capturing
customer value the numbers you can play
with the metric tricks things like that
are really hard to change after the fact
so being clear around how you want to
capture value and having at a fair value
exchange meaning the customer agrees
that is also the way to capture value
and reflects how they derive value from
a product is one of the probably the
hardest parts of this whole exercise
please welcome a Sharma head of pricing
and monetization at Muro carsten Holm VP
of pricing and monetization at Splunk
Janie Lee head of product at Loom and
Allison head of growth at open AI hello
everyone thank you for joining us we're
here to talk about pricing and
monetization how you can use it we'll
get started in a second my name is Akay
Sharma I'm head of pricing and
monetization at Meo and then in addition
to pricing I'm the guy who really likes
the product so go telling people how to
use it even when they don't want it
that's me let's just hear my
co-panelists introduce themselves thanks
a hi everyone my name is Janie Lee I
lead product at Loom uh which is now
part of
alassian hi I'm Allison Harmon I lead
growth at open Ai and finally cost NM
I'm heading pricing monetization at
Splunk super excited to be here I get to
talk about what I love okay thank you
welcome so we're going to talk about
pricing and packaging and I have a
confession to make first off I got into
this
accidentally when I was a consultant I
loved data and I knew about
semiconductors and there was a project
which needed someone who knew those
things and they couldn't find someone
who already knew pricing so they brought
me in but what that did was it got me
amazing mentors who helped me learn
about this learn the ropes showed me how
to think logically about it and how to
apply data thinking outcomes and that
kind of thinking to do pricing and I
loved it haven't looked back that's also
the basis of what we are doing today
we're going to talk about what we have
done how we have thought about
and the hope is that we can help you see
behind the curtain a little bit and help
you see how you can apply this in your
own context so it's help you learn how
to price rather than giving you a blind
formula to follow hopefully it's fun
first off I want to try and make you
reset your mind about what pricing is I
call it it's another product feature and
just like other product features it
changes what your customer's behavior is
and so you should think about it the
same way and use it intentionally to
drive growth Revenue whatever else but
think about it more than something you
set it once and forget it it's an active
part of your product and you have to
evolve it just the same as you do with
other products or product features and
then pricing is actually also much more
than the price level there's the value
metric and if you're here at saser you
all
understood identifying the best value
metric is important but there's a lot
more things out there and you should pay
attention to it and think about them as
well as you think about
pricing the underlying thing why you
should think about it is my mental model
saying hey this complex math which my
Geek Side wins out every now and then
forget it but there's the left side the
green side what benefit would a customer
expect and then the right side which is
the cost side what is it going to cost
them and the customer is expecting that
the green side should be much more than
the red side
and when the red side there's one fart
the expected cost which pricing
influences in one or more ways so as you
change the green side your product your
features go to market your marketing
budget discounts you have to change the
pricing side appropriately so that you
can achieve the goals you want and
that's what brings me to my next one
which is how do you price and we debated
this internally in the group uh the
simplest version we came to was you have
have to figure out why you are doing it
what's the outcome you're trying to
achieve and a different outcome would
lead you to a different pricing choice
or a pricing model choice if you're
trying to drive user growth you want the
least friction if you're trying to
maximize Revenue you have to find the
revenue maximization point and there's a
lot of tricks and trials that you do to
figure out these things but this is the
mental model what's the outcome am I
doing the right things for that
outcome I'm going to give you one
example this is one which is less
commonly used when Meo was an early
product the outcome that we are trying
to achieve was make sure the users love
the product and they figured out that
user love happens when a lot of people
come together on the Miro board and
collaborate that's when users get enough
value and so the first choice that was
made was minimum five users in a paid
plan it seems counterintuitive it wasn't
to try and maximize Revenue enforced
people who were a 1 person team by a
five people team it was to set that
threshold high enough that people when
they actually buy they're getting value
was a conscious choice because the
outcome was users need to love the
product that would help get to product
Market
fit as the product matured there were
larger teams which are coming up and
they wanted more security they wanted
more features and again here it was to
the goal was to scale the revenue in a
healthy way we wanted to make sure that
that the customers who need it get it
and so when we introduced the business
plan which had security features like
SSO included in it we set another
threshold we said 20 users minimum for
the business plan because if you were
smaller than that you could pay us the
higher price but maybe you weren't
getting all the value and so you
shouldn't be pushed into that and that
allowed product sales customer success
also to aligned with the customer
benefit it was choices which were not
short-term optimal but were the right
goals for the
company then as Neo grew and we scaling
up we wanted the product to be available
to everyone and then we did
experimentation and we figured out hey
we can now reduce the limits down to one
user without actually hurting any of our
key metrics and we can make this product
available to everyone and we already
know the product is good so that made
sense so this is how you can see as
goals changed we took the same metrics
and we changed what Meo did with our uh
minimum user account and this is not a
very common thing that you think about
where you have to think about a whole
package of pric singing and then you can
figure out how to achieve your goals a
little bit better that's the starting
and I want to open this up to my co
panelist here how they use pricing maybe
Allison you have something to share yeah
so I think the the key theme here is
just the value exchange of pricing and
then what your success metric is at open
AI certainly our success metric at the
moment is is just a growth and Adoption
of the platform the AI space is new and
we want as many customers companies as
possible to try it out and so we as many
of you probably know have set this track
record of releasing something really
intelligent and then even as we improve
it lowering the price and the goal of
that is as we get more efficient at
serving that it yields more adoption
within a company and across companies
because they can serve that to even more
people which is a bit counterintuitive
because you think as we increase value
you should increased price but really
it's while we're trying to ignite the
market and just get as many companies
exposed to as AI as possible that's
what's made sense for us that by no
means always makes sense for every
company but in the same vein of you
scale and move your value and pricing
levers with your different company goals
yeah I think to add to this is there's
no Silver Bullet in pricing right so
there it really depends on what the
objectives are right use adoption value
extraction you name it and you got to
adopt or you got to change and customize
your model towards that and that's I
think it's the main thing here the other
aspect I and I'm going to talk about it
a little bit later as well is like
really zeroing in on the metric and what
is capturing customer value the numbers
you can play with the metrics things
like that are really hard to change
after the fact so being clear around how
you want to capture value and having it
a fair value exchange meaning the
customer agrees that is also the way to
capture value and reflects how they
derive value from a product is one of
the probably the hardest parts of this
whole exercise let's move on to another
topic which is very fun jie sure so I
will spend a little bit of time getting
into the brass tax of you have a sense
of what pricing and packaging you
actually want to implement or might be
good for the next stage of your
company's Evolution how do you actually
validate if it is the right decision or
not and I often get asked how should
experiment or roll this out and is you
think about this question I think the
first question I ask back is what are
you trying to get out of it are you
trying to validate if a completely new
product or package that you're
introducing has some product Market fit
are you trying to drisk a really big
change to an existing popular package
that your customers already love and I
think what you do and whether you even
experiment at all will be really
dependent on what that question is I
think the second thing to think about is
just the maturity of your product and
your company the reality is it's really
really hard to have enough volume so far
down the purchase funnel to actually run
an experiment that gives you really
precise results and even if you do it'll
take you a really long time to get
enough data on things like churn that
actually will give you the Precision
that you're looking for and if you're
really Enterprise or sales L that volume
is definitely not going to be there and
so really helpful to think about what
that looks like something else that's
important is also to understand what is
your risk profile the risk of rolling
out a new product or a net new package
is very different than changing limits
or pricing on a package that the
majority of your customers are on when
you're rolling out a completely new
product worst cases no one buys it which
is obviously really bad but you're not
actually detracting from your bottom
line whereas if you're changing an
existing package that you already have
the majority of your customers
converting on any little move there can
really change the bottom line of your
business instantly and so really helpful
to Think Through what all of those
answers are and that'll help you
determine if you should be experimenting
period and so I think these are just
like very wide generalizations but
typically when product teams pricing
teams pmm teams are trying to get a
holistic range of outcomes they often
use surveys and there are a variety of
surveys that you can run I think at
scale or if you have the budget people
will hire third parties we've also
worked with pmm our research team
sometimes PMS have brute strapped
surveys to just get a sense of what
might people's willingness to pay be and
this gives you a range of outcomes you
might expect and depending on your risk
tolerance your goals you can decide what
you may want to roll out for things that
have really high risk in where you say
we can afford to S wait six to n months
for an answer we have enough volume and
this is so important to our business we
want to roll out as an experiment we
rarely are running experiments like on a
quarterly basis on pricing these are
really reserved for our highest impact
biggest risk changes will do something
like an experiment and finally something
else that we've also really done is use
betas sometimes we have a hypothesis of
a product that we're building who the
ideal customer segment might be but the
honest answer is like other customers
might F Find value or use it in a way
that we might not expect and so we've
also rolled things out as beta without
pricing and packaging even though we
like to think about it up front and that
allows us to get an understanding of
what is the natural usage of this
product who is using it and how when we
decide to G does that inform the pricing
the packaging
Etc and if after all of these
considerations you decide to experiment
I just call out a few things that are
incredibly important outside of the
metrics that we just talked about in
really being clear on what matters most
I'd say be really clear on what the
guard rail metrics are as well I think
with pricing and packaging you often
expect if paid paid conversion or
Revenue goes up this was a wild success
I think across the market we've seen a
lot of examples where later down the
line you might actually see it's been a
bad decision for your product or your
company longterm because it hurt
engagement or actual user growth in an
unintended way and so I think outside of
knowing exactly what you're optimizing
for knowing what are the highest risk
things um that we need to know ahead of
time to to make that tradeoff is really
important and then finally I'd say the
other just key principles in terms of
drisking any experiment ation is first
keep it simple I think with pricing and
packaging in particular it is really
easy to go down the rabbit hole of what
are all the things and edge cases I need
to control for we often like to think
about where is 80% of the impact that we
can get if we just learn whether it's
Geo based or segment based the second is
do right by customers being on the
receiving end of pricing and packaging
experiments can be really frustrating if
you find out and so we've had a
philosophy of hey if someone finds out
or if someone is really unhappy how do
we just give them the most generous
version of our policy to make sure that
there isn't any negative consequence and
I think negative potential brand impact
and then i' say finally is the cross
functional partnership is really
important making sure that your support
teams or your sales teams are equipped
to have these conversations are just as
important as how you actually roll out
these experiments when you do pricing
so those are some of the just high level
thoughts but would love to hear a little
bit more about uh how others have
experimented experimented with pricing
or maybe avoided it
altogether I think uh on the it's it's
an interesting point right because you
never really know what you're getting
into right you have a new product and
you really know the value you think you
know what the value is you haven't we
did some customer interviews you got
some feedback but you don't really know
so on some level experimentation is
important but at the same time you also
got to drisk
it pricing is one of these things once
you have it out there in the market it's
really hard to roll it back in right
it's like a one-way door right once it's
out
there tough to reel it in so how do you
do that the less transparent you can be
in what you're doing and I'm my
background aavia does as Enterprise
sales so Enterprise sales is generally
not super transparent when it comes to
price list and things like that but
helps do it in certain markets or
geographies where it doesn't matter
right back in the days way way back when
doing Enterprise E pricing and we did
all the experiments in South Africa why
English-speaking country UK language
version if it goes south no one will
ever hear about it right we may not have
that opportunity here but what are those
what's your South Africa basically where
can you do it where if it goes south
nobody finds out about it at the same
time you learn you you have the right
market and you can get the right
insights out of this in my past life we
always used to use Australia which is a
similar type of Market I feel like
there's General growth wisdom which is
don't test something you wouldn't ship
and I think that's really true with
pricing and packaging but the
contrapositive or inverse is also true
which is don't test something you
wouldn't roll back genuinely if you're
testing to learn you need to be willing
to roll it back which means you have to
put in guardrails like we talked about
probably not roll it out to just 50/50
split of your entire audience probably
pick a segment that you want to learn
the most from are focused on and really
have a good customer comms plan with
your support teams your sales teams on
what they're going to say and how you'll
migrate customers if you end up not
shipping it I've personally done those
and it is very hard but achievable
especially if you take a long-term
customer Centric view be willing to let
customers stay on Legacy pricing give
them incentives things like that so if
the learnings are worth it it's
extremely valuable but I think you
really have to ask yourself if you're
equipped to invest the time yeah and I
think one of the things you have to
drisk is your own
mindset experiments fail very often and
you get lots of unexpected results good
and bad both one example at Meo was gifs
were very popular and there was a
limitation on free plans to play gifs
putting a pay ball there we thought
would convert a little bit the
conversion was very big it was 15% that
kind of uplift was way more than the
team expected but the other also happen
the failures happened much more often
the most popular features which were the
drivers of conversion from starter to
business plan they said let's pick those
two or three features and allow starter
plan users to test them out and they'll
see more value and they'll upgrade the
reverse happened the users thought
that's all business plan is and this is
not good enough for me to pay the extra
bump so the conversion rates fell
drastically and this is very common when
you
experiment the drisking is as a leader
assume the mindset that failures will
happen and all of the drisking and
insurance you're doing that helps you
continue doing experiments and learning
that's more important than the success
of Any Given experiment let's jump on to
one more topic caution you want to tell
us a little bit about packaging yeah
packaging and price level so let me pull
it all together
couple things here when you think about
packaging right they like all this hey
you got to do good better best or you
want to do some bundling or whatever the
case may be right and if you peel back
the onion the thing you really want to
do with packaging is ultimately you want
to segment your customer base and you do
that because different customer segments
have different willingness to pay and
different willingness to pay means like
different price points and different
value realization and that's the real
goal here right when we talk packaging
it's all about custom segmentation has
all capturing willingness to pay and
value extraction which is the Paradigm
number one for pricing in general in my
bind and we did or we're doing something
super interesting at Splunk for those of
you guys who are not familiar with
Splunk Splunk is a data analytics
platform you put in a bunch of machine
data and you can search on it for
whatever you want to search for right
it's super
flexible and the typical use cases are
Enterprise security cyber security
breaches you name it or it service
intelligence hey are my servers up and
running do I have some early early
warnings and things going down and so
we're selling basically a bunch of
products we're selling the Enterprise
platform the Splunk platform and then we
have add-on
sales Enterprise security and we have a
different price point for each of them
so as a customer if you want to buy it
service intelligence you're going to buy
the platform and then you buy the ad on
sale so it's two line items adds quite a
bit of friction to it in the sales
process and over time we figured out as
people adopt these use cases expand his
use cases they end up buying more
platform you're using this new product
but you also in the process of it need
to buy more of the underline platform so
at some point being question as like hey
should we really charge for the
individual product or should we do Drive
in uh in indirect monetization model
effectively package it all up roll it
all into one kind of like entire Suite
if you will and say hey Mr customer if
you sign up for this like super user
add-on you quote unquote get it for free
you don't you never really want to talk
about getting it for free because you
want people to have skin in the game you
want them to commit
it and ultimately monetize it on the
platform level and so we're we're
running some interesting Pilots there
that ultimately showed two things a user
adoption was much much higher because
people felt like they can experiment
without any real risk and commitment
number one and number two is the ASP for
the platform actually went up so in
those deals where we where we sold the
bundle or positioned the bundle we were
actually able to Rite uh to realize a
higher average sales price for the
underlying platform and that's just one
example that really shows like hey how
packaging can really help change the
game and also how like new somewhat less
obvious packaging approaches can help
change the dynamic of it the other thing
is price level at the end of the day we
can talk
about the academics pricing all day long
sooner or later you got to have a number
and there's a price list and there's a
product and you got to have a number you
got to put on on the price pist and so
that's what we have struggle with all
day long again
C here I'm talking about Enterprise
sales by and large it's much easier to
lower price point prices than raise
prices right it's much easier if you
have less transparency if it's rather
opaque if you don't publish your price
list for everyone to see gives you watch
more flexibility and options and then
last but not least in my experience at
least we all have done some econ class
oneone talk about price elasticity and
find the optimal price point on all of
that stuff in Enterprise sales or
enterprise software it's not super
elastic that's the bottom line Splunk
maybe one of the more elastic Enterprise
Products than others but you're not
going to wake up one more one day and
say oh let's buy a bunch of Oracle today
oh it's half price that's by twice as
much it's not that's just not going to
happen and as a general rule of thumb
it's probably better to start higher and
give yourself option value you can
always discount the way you can all
always lower price points down the road
than trying to like Circle the dry on
finding the right Perfect Price Point
soorry let me take a stop another thing
I would say about price point is I feel
like there's a lot of General wisdom of
you shouldn't change pricing more than
once twice a year open aai has certainly
done that many more times than twice a
year we typically launch a model and
then weeks or months later launch
another version of it that's even better
and lower the price and then lower the
price again
I think that really speaks to the speed
of the AI market and Innovation and as
we pointed out they're always lowering
the price we are always lowering the
price um we've yet to do a price
increase and so I think that that kind
of flew in the face of the wisdom that I
had coming into this role where I was
like o we can't touch pricing that much
and learned like we actually can but in
a way that's delightful and value
creative for users but for the average
company I would still caution like not
thinking that pricing and packaging is
something you can change all the time
even if you are lowering like most
markets aren't moving as fast as the AI
Market is yeah and I think to
successfully on the inverse increase
price it is really important to
demonstrate and articulate what that
value is that they're getting associated
with it I think when you see examples of
price increases gone bad it's because of
the messaging or lack of value that uh
they're communicating and so I think
when you're incre ing prices a few
questions ask are how do you actually
let customers experience that increased
value that justifies the pricing I've
seen really successful examples of
Trials whether it's time based or usage
based that allow customers to see how
much has the product improved and what
is the incremental value that you're
receiving and so I think on the other
hand there are successful examples of
price increases but what value that
they're getting needs to be clear within
call it 2 seconds to make sure that
there isn't that immediate negative
reaction from the customer in the market
I have one more question for you you
guys mentioned don't change pricing too
often how often should they look at
pricing and change it I think on one
hand at least from a product perspective
we're thinking about pricing all the
time whenever a product is being built a
new feature is being launched the first
question we ask is who are we building
it for and which package should it go on
and so on one hand we're thinking about
it constantly at a feature by feature
level and then I think on aggregate e we
are thinking about it all year every
quarter even if we're not changing it I
think there needs to be something
substantive that's changed in either the
value the customer base and I think that
looks different depending on the market
you're in and how quickly that market is
is changing and I think some are
changing much more quickly than others
and then second I think it's what is the
nature and context of your business have
your goals changed and I think answering
those two I think you land somewhere
between very frequently quarterly to
like maybe once a year at at most yeah
I'll give an overly opinionated answer
that I'm sure people can disagree with
which is I feel like you can make tweaks
and small or medium changes as
frequently as you want and as your
business commands but I wouldn't change
your packaging add a skew overthink
something more frequently than every one
to two years I think that's when your
goals actually change your customers
might be changing the product really
changes even for us who really iterate
really rapidly chat gbt plus has been
our chat PT subscription for over a year
now and so that's an example of
something we haven't changed and I think
I'm proud of and we've been thoughtful
about where and when we change that but
it has stayed the same in the market
which I think is the right call
personally yeah I'd like to Echo that
right we have made some M minor small
price changes and changes to
monetization models but it was usually
driven by some form of like external
event right where hey the market has
shifted market dynamics are different
now hey people don't want to buy on
whatever events monitored but then are
really more like bu security user in
your sock whatever the reason may be and
they made sense at the time but every
single time that it's a it's a trade-off
right because whatever you change to
there's no linear correlation to the old
model so there always going to be some
winners and losers in this the winners
going to take their wins they're not
going to give you the excess value they
generate and and pay more and the losers
are not going to pay more because you
change your pricing model right so at
the end of the day every time you make a
change there is a little bit of friction
and you better be sure to make it up in
volume at the end of the day okay and
finally for me a lot of important
decisions like what value metric how to
set up your pricing structure are made
too early in your journey where you
don't have a dedicated pricing expert if
you're at that stage go find an expert
who can help you look around the corners
it's worth going that extra mild to get
that advice early on so you don't make
mistakes which you have to unwind later
on all thank you so much for being here
and thank you everyone for being an
awesome audience